On behalf of Expert Village, my name is Rodney
Fielitz. I'm a certified flight instructor
in Cottonwood, AZ, and I'm here to give you
the basics of what it takes to become a pilot.
Alright, the next thing we have to teach you
is weight and balance. Weight and balance
has to do with cross-country flying. You might
want to go cross-country flying, throw all
the kids and the dog and everybody in the
airplane--and maybe even some cake for Grandma.
But, one of the things you have to learn is
how much weight will this airplane take, considering
how much fuel you put in there, how much everybody
weighs. The airplane can only carry so much
weight, and after that, the airplane will
not fly. We have a loading graph in this airplane
that shows you the different steps for the
fuel, the front passengers, the rear passengers
and how much weight you can haul. And this
is a critical thing, because one of the things
with weight and balance is you want to know
where the center of gravity is on your airplane.
We have what we call a Datum Line. Anything
in front of that is forward center of gravity
or forward CG--anything aft of that is called
Aft CG. There's different characteristics
on how you can load an airplane. If you load
your airplane with forward CGs, there's different
characteristics of what the airplane will
do. It's going to take a longer roll down
the runway before it climbs, before you can
get it off the runway, because you've got
the forward weight of the airplane too far
forward--and it just doesn't want to climb.
And the other one is called Aft CG. And Aft
CG is probably the most serious--you do not
like to load aircraft aft. There is a couple
benefits. You'll get a faster airspeed out
of an airplane that is loaded with an aft
CG. But the worst thing is you'll have a higher
stall speed and you'll have more violent stall
characteristics. So again, we teach stalls,
but we also want to teach you not to load
the aircraft so you get into an Aft CG--or
a nasty violent stall characteristic. So,
during your practice, we do weight and balances.
This is also a pre-requirement for your check
ride. You will do your cross country procedures,
and you will go out with an examiner and do
a cross country. You'll also do a practice
weight and balance. And you'll make sure the
airplane is inside of its envelope. The envelope
is what we call your safe operating. You can
fly within the envelope--either the front
or the rear being loaded to max. As long as
you're in the envelope you can be OK. Doesn't
mean you can't go outside of the envelope.
I teach my kids this--you can go and do things
outside of the envelope, but someday you are
going to get caught. And you're going to get
in trouble. So we always teach our kids--and
our people to fly within the envelope.